README.md, before:

git-substitute
==============

the stupid search and replacer

[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/nicknovitski/git-substitute.svg?style=flat-square)][release]
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/nicknovitski/git-substitute.svg?style=flat-square)][travis]

[release]: https://github.com/nicknovitski/git-substitute/releases
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/nicknovitski/git-substitute

## Installation

[Download the appropriate binary for your OS and architecture](https://github.com/nicknovitski/git-substitute/releases/latest)
and unzip it to somewhere in your `$PATH`.

## Usage

Pass a search pattern and a replacement string to replace text matching the
former with the latter.
```shell
$ git substitute foo bar # "foo" -> "bar"
```

Pass one or more paths to restrict the substitution to just those paths.
```shell
$ git substitute Command Demand bin doc # "Command" -> "Demand", but only in bin/ and doc/
```

Wrap quotes around arguments with spaces or other shell metacharacters in them.
```shell
$ git substitute 'to boldy go' 'to go boldly'
```

The search pattern argument is an extended regex, interpreting metacharacters
(`\^$.|?*()[]{}`), while the replacement argument treats them literally.
```
$ git substitute peoples? persons? # "people" & "peoples" -> "persons?"
```

Thus, to search for those characters as literals, escape them with a backslash
and wrap quotes around the argument (technically you don't have to always do
that second bit, but the alternative is even more backslashes, and ugh to
that).
```shell
$ git substitute '50\.00' 49.99 # '50.00' -> '49.99'
```

The replacement argument recognizes one kind of metacharacter: group
references, in the form `\1`, `\2`, etc.
```shell
git substitute '\bUser\.find_by_name\((.*)\)' 'User.where(name: \1).first'
```

Finally, before you dive in, may I recommend an alias to `git sub`?  It's much less typing.
```shell
git config --global alias.sub substitute
```

I would have just named the command `sub`, but:

1. The other git commands are all complete English words.
2. SEO.

## Acknowledgments

I can't remember when I first read [jason meredith's blog post explaining the
"grep -l pipe xargs sed -i s" method][use-git-grep], but I remember many times
since then when it's enabled me to trivially accomplish enormous things.
Thanks, Jason.  You've given me leverage.

[use-git-grep]: http://blog.jasonmeridth.com/posts/use-git-grep-to-replace-strings-in-files-in-your-git-repository/

Commit message:

briefly note important unfinished things

README.md, after:

git-substitute
==============

the stupid search and replacer

[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/nicknovitski/git-substitute.svg?style=flat-square)][release]
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/nicknovitski/git-substitute.svg?style=flat-square)][travis]

[release]: https://github.com/nicknovitski/git-substitute/releases
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/nicknovitski/git-substitute

## Installation

[Download the appropriate binary for your OS and architecture](https://github.com/nicknovitski/git-substitute/releases/latest)
and unzip it to somewhere in your `$PATH`.

## Usage

Pass a search pattern and a replacement string to replace text matching the
former with the latter.
```shell
$ git substitute foo bar # "foo" -> "bar"
```

Pass one or more paths to restrict the substitution to just those paths.
```shell
$ git substitute Command Demand bin doc # "Command" -> "Demand", but only in bin/ and doc/
```

Wrap quotes around arguments with spaces or other shell metacharacters in them.
```shell
$ git substitute 'to boldy go' 'to go boldly'
```

The search pattern argument is an extended regex, interpreting metacharacters
(`\^$.|?*()[]{}`), while the replacement argument treats them literally.
```
$ git substitute peoples? persons? # "people" & "peoples" -> "persons?"
```

Thus, to search for those characters as literals, escape them with a backslash
and wrap quotes around the argument (technically you don't have to always do
that second bit, but the alternative is even more backslashes, and ugh to
that).
```shell
$ git substitute '50\.00' 49.99 # '50.00' -> '49.99'
```

The replacement argument recognizes one kind of metacharacter: group
references, in the form `\1`, `\2`, etc.
```shell
git substitute '\bUser\.find_by_name\((.*)\)' 'User.where(name: \1).first'
```

Finally, before you dive in, may I recommend an alias to `git sub`?  It's much less typing.
```shell
git config --global alias.sub substitute
```

I would have just named the command `sub`, but:

1. The other git commands are all complete English words.
2. SEO.

## Non-Usage

Things which this command does not yet do:

- Detect and respect your grep.patternType configuration
- Perl-Compatible Regexes

## Acknowledgments

I can't remember when I first read [jason meredith's blog post explaining the
"grep -l pipe xargs sed -i s" method][use-git-grep], but I remember many times
since then when it's enabled me to trivially accomplish enormous things.
Thanks, Jason.  You've given me leverage.

[use-git-grep]: http://blog.jasonmeridth.com/posts/use-git-grep-to-replace-strings-in-files-in-your-git-repository/
